# BinaryClassification

The goal of this project is to automate the process of predicting whether a file is malicious or not through the ML pipeline. For this, we first need to identify the best-performing ML model. For this purpose, different attributes of the files are given, indicating some specific details about the file. The Classification analysis starts with detailed data exploration, which involves the investigation of different columns and their values, statistical summary, unique values, distribution of values, etc. This is followed by the data pre-processing step, which involves handling incorrect and missing values, correcting data types, handling outliers, feature encoding, feature creation, and normalization. Then a detailed visualization analysis is conducted to observe the relationships between the features and the target variables. A Correlation matrix is used to quantify these relationships. resolving the class imbalance problem. To select the best set of features, dimension reduction techniques are used, such as PCA. Splitting data for training and testing. Once the dataset is completely preprocessed, different ML models are implemented for prediction. These models are fine-tuned through grid search, which uses the k-fold method to filter out the best set of hyperparameters for the given dataset. All of the models are evaluated using different metrics, namely accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, confusion matrix, and ROC curve. After identifying the best ML model, features of importance are observed. and a complete ML pipeline is generated.
